---
published: true
title: Bluetooth and the freedom it brought
layout: post
tags: [bluetooth, bt, headphones, earphones, development]
categories: [programmming, Design, conventional]
---

Bluetooth tech is everywhere. It seems like it was here since beginning. We have adopted it and started taking it for granted as go along every day. It has become what Jack Nicholsen is to the film industry. Wihout it the world would feel strange. It would feel as if our phones are still there but at the same time feel unfamiliar. Much like Casey Nisetat without glasses. It is a common interface for so many devices. And personally i’m happy to understand it. 

When i think of bluettoth i often connect it to the icons printed on carboard boxes of TVs and other tech. The technology is marketed differently as the size of the screen. Logically. Because what makes it tick is hidden from our eyes. Various processors, chips and antennas are hidden into ever thin phones. And the signal is invisible. 2.4 GHz radio waves stream small packets of data between our devices as we walk or skate along the street and don't care much about it. Unless the signal breaks. That and the pairing process is the only time we seem to encounter technologie's issues.

Its often for a bad cause. It is in our nature that we talk about unplesant things more often thatn not. And it is not uncommon to agree that pairing takes too long and that switching our phones from back to front pockets nerves us out.  But we eventually go with it. Because those two things are just small compromises we have to bare to benefit from freedom that this technology gave us. 

I am an electrical engineer and when my wired headphones died back in 2005 i fixed them. I could, because I understood where the problem was. The cable was commonly the weak spot.

Right after the 3.5 mm connector the cable took the most beating. It was twisted and folded in my pocket for the busride i had to school. I didn't noticed it because the cable was fine. Until it snaped. The last thread, holding it together, broke. Comming from radio-shack store i quickly resuimed my listening, but this time the cable was a bit shorter and the connector was bulkier. This continued far enough i had tobuy a new pair of headphones.

With the uprise of battery technology, more olutions became available. With that bluetooth headphones and earphones. Lasting for 10 hours of streaming, i was ready to venture into a wireless freedom and I received it with a surptise. Yes, the gods were with me this time. 

I got JBL's wireless headphones and have been using it ever since. I could not be hapier. Not only i dsiposed all cables but also the battery was solid. I charge it on monthly basis. And that is something i never thought i could. Tech is amazing and we are just at the beginning of evolution. Here is to newcommers: even if you don't tear things appart (as i did when i was a kid), try to understand how it works. There are great resources online for this. This knowledge will get you far. Or nowhere at all. but ultimately, you will understand how to address problems and appreciate the magic of tech. Who knowy, you could even invent the tech of the future!
